#!/usr/bin/env bash

compliments="You're like the mail man; you always deliver and you look great in shorts!
I like the arch of your brow!
Your shoulders should have wings!
Your eyeballs are incredible!
I'd like to sculpt your face in mash potato.
You'd look amazing on the front of a ship!
If you were a fruit, you'd be a fineapple.
If you were a vegetable, you'd be a cutecumber.
At the hairdressers, people just point at you and say 'like that'.
I'd clean the hair out of the plughole for you.
I'd follow you into battle. Or to the shops. Or just on Twitter. Up to you.
If you tried, you could probably be quite famous.
If you were a dinosaur you'd be a Legendasaurus Rex.
If you were bacteria, you'd be the good kind.
I like that when you see a dog you point at it and say 'dog'.
I once looked at your bum. I regret nothing.
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No. It's you, you massive legend.
People talk about how nice you are behind your back.
Thanks for always getting us to the airport 4 hours early.
Things I wish I could be: Ninja. Astronaut. You.
When my life flashes before my eyes, I hope it's mostly you.
Without you the world would have fewer people in it.
You are a terrible cook. But a brilliant human.
You are more adorable than a baby panda riding a sneezing piglet.
You have the best dance moves. They're both great.
You're a glass of water after a long run.
You’re a lot more intelligent than you look.
You’re better than a perfectly ripe avocado.
You're cooler than the other side of the pillow.
You're more lovable than a baby hippo in a onesie.
You're my favourite person to be hungover with.
You're not big and clever. 
You're perfectly layered. Like a lasagne.
You're the bee's knees, the cat's pyjamas, the pheasant's bowtie.
You're the first person I'd look for after an apocalyptic event.
You’re the human equivalent of a bank holiday.
Your hair is sleek and glossy like the mane of a mighty stallion.
You should be everyone’s specialist subject on Mastermind.
You could open that jar of mayonnaise using only 3 fingers.
Strangers all wanna sit next to you on the bus.
Coworkers fantasizes about getting stuck in the elevator with you.
If Einstein could meet you, he'd be \"mildly to moderately\" intimidated.
At least two friends are going to name their child and/or goldfish after you.
socks + sandals + you = I'm into it.
Your ex thought about you this morning, then they thought about donuts.
You are freakishly good at thumb wars.
A 3rd tier cable network would totally create a television show about you.
The FBI tapped your phone just to hear the sound of your voice.
You remind everyone of kiwis- delicious and surprisingly fuzzy.
You never forget to fill the ice-cube tray.
People enjoy you accidentally touching their butt while putting on your seat-belt.
I’d give you the last piece of my gum even if I’d just ate garlic.
There was a high school rumor that you are a distant relative of Abraham Lincoln.
You could make up a weird religion or diet and everyone would follow it.
Your siblings are pissed that your photo is the star of your parent's mantle.
Everyone at sleepovers thought you were the bravest during thunderstorms.
A doctor once saw your butt through the hospital gown. They approve!
Someone almost got a tattoo of your name once, but their mom talked them out of it.
You are your parent's greatest accomplishment, unless they invented the \"spork\".
Some dudes hope you start a band so they can start a cover band of that band.
Your principal would call you to the office just to look cool.
Your allergies are some of the least embarrassing allergies.
Your handshake conveys intelligence, confidence and minor claminess.
Cops admire your ability to stay a perfect 3-5 miles above the speed limit.
You rarely have to go to the bathroom when you fly in the window seat.
Your roommate wants a lock of your hair but is afraid to ask.
Cockroaches, mice and other pests avoid your place out of respect.
Callers are intimidated by how funny your voicemail greeting is.
Kids think you are the “cool old person”.
People always think your jeggings are regular jeans.
80% of motorcycle gangs think you’d be a delightful sidecar.
Everyone at the laundromat thinks you have the cutest underwear.
People behind you at movies think you are the perfect height.
Your parents argue over which one of them you look like.
Sushi chefs are wowed by your chopstick dexterity.
You want the best for everyone...except Gary.
You are someone's \"the one that got away\".
You’re that “Nothing” when people ask me what I’m thinking about.
I bet you make babies smile.
You have impeccable manners.
You are the most perfect you there is.
Our system of inside jokes is so advanced that only you and I get it. And I like that.
Your perspective is refreshing.
You light up the room.
You deserve a hug right now.
You should be proud of yourself.
You’re more helpful than you realize.
You have a great sense of humor.
You’ve got all the right moves!
Is that your picture next to “charming” in the dictionary?
Your kindness is a balm to all who encounter it.
You’re all that and a super-size bag of chips.
On a scale from 1 to 10, you’re an 11.
You have the courage of your convictions.
Aside from food, you’re my favorite.
If cartoon bluebirds were real, a bunch of them would be sitting on your shoulders singing right now.
You’re like sunshine on a rainy day.
You bring out the best in other people.
Your ability to recall random factoids at just the right time is impressive.
You’re a great listener.
How is it that you always look great, even in sweatpants?
Everything would be better if more people were like you!
I bet you sweat glitter.
You were cool way before hipsters were cool.
That color is perfect on you.
Hanging out with you is always a blast.
You always know — and say — exactly what I need to hear when I need to hear it.
You smell really good.
You may dance like no one’s watching, but everyone’s watching because you’re an amazing dancer!
When you say, “I meant to do that,” I totally believe you.
When you’re not afraid to be yourself is when you’re most incredible.
Colors seem brighter when you’re around.
You’re more fun than a ball pit filled with candy. (And seriously, what could be more fun than that?)
That thing you don’t like about yourself is what makes you so interesting.
Jokes are funnier when you tell them.
You’re better than a triple-scoop ice cream cone. With sprinkles.
Your hair looks stunning.
You’re one of a kind!
You’re inspiring.
If you were a box of crayons, you’d be the giant name-brand one with the built-in sharpener.
You should be thanked more often. So thank you!!
You have the best ideas.
Being around you is like being on a happy little vacation.
If someone based an Internet meme on you, it would have impeccable grammar.
You could survive a Zombie apocalypse.
You’re more fun than bubble wrap.
Your voice is magnificent.
You’re like a breath of fresh air.
You’re gorgeous — and that’s the least interesting thing about you, too.
Your creative potential seems limitless.
You’re the coolest person I know. And I consider myself best friends with like all celebrities, so...
Actions speak louder than words, and yours tell an incredible story.
Somehow you make time stop and fly at the same time.
You seem to really know who you are.
Any team would be lucky to have you on it.
In high school I bet you were voted “most likely to keep being awesome.”
I bet you do the crossword puzzle in ink.
If you were a scented candle they’d call it Perfectly Imperfect (and it would smell like summer).
There’s ordinary, and then there’s you.
You’re even better than a unicorn, because you’re real.
Has anyone ever told you that you have great posture?
I Don’t Have A Favorite Color, It’s Pretty Much Whatever You Are Wearing.
If You Knew How Much I Think About You, I Would Be Very Embarrassed.
You Might Be The Primary Reason For Global Warming.
You Could Never Be Ice Cream. Because You’re So Hot. And A Person.
Even if you were cloned, you'd still be one of a kind. And the better looking one.
You're not someone I pretend to not see in public.
I can never remember my dreams, but I assume you are always in them.
I don't know if sarcasm is a skill, but you've certainly mastered it.
Are you a beaver? ... because damn.
I would love to spend every minute of every day with you, but some days I actually have to get stuff done.
Your smile is proof that the best things in life are free.
You're smarter than Google and Mary Poppins combined.
I don't have a favourite colour, It's pretty much whatever you are wearing.
I can never remember my dreams, but I assume you are always in them.
You are like a corner piece of a puzzle. Without you, I'm completely lost.
You inspire me and most likely strangers. Also, friends and stalkers.
You are so beautiful I would certainly steal your photos, make a fake account and impress people online.
Your face makes other people ugly.
I can't take my eyes off of you. Unless you notice me, then I'll quickly look away and act like it never happened.
Are you a beaver, because damn.
You're like the one sock that dissapears. I don't know what I did to lose you but I want you back.
I bet you make babies smile.
If there is one thing I like about you, its that I like more than one thing about you.
Did you have plastic surgery to become that attractive?
Talking to you is the best part of my day, aside from when I'm sleeping and when I'm eating.
You're the nothing when people ask me whats on my mind.
You are awkward, in a cute way. Like an elevator ride, but with puppies.
You may not be really, really good looking. But you're pretty damn close.
Just like an untrained puppy. I'd really like to take you out.
You know what's awesome? Chocolate cake, oh and your face.
I'm not insulting you, I'm describing you.
Maybe you should eat some makeup so you can be pretty on the inside too.
Our time together is like a nap, it just doesn't last long enough.
Every day without you is like a day without my phone, I just don't know what to do with myself.
I'm really good at people-watching. I'm so glad I can practice that skill on you."


insults="Can I have the name of your hair salon? I need to know where not to go.
You seem to be suffering from delusions of adequacy.
My days of not taking you seriously have come to a middle.
You are the human equivalent of a participation trophy.
You have a face for radio.
Whatever kind of look you were aiming for, you missed.
I smell something burning. Are you trying to think again?
You’re like a lighthouse in a desert: bright but not very useful.
Your face is just fine. It’s your personality that’s the issue.
Whatever is eating you must be suffering terribly.
You’ve got all the tact of a bowling ball.
I do not have the time or the crayons to explain this to you.
You have the attention span of an ice cream in July.
I will not have a battle of wits with someone who is unarmed.
You must have been a slippery baby...
May the chocolate chips in your cookies always turn out to be raisins.
You are proof that the universe has a sense of humor.
Sometimes it’s better to keep your mouth shut and let people think you’re stupid than open it and confirm their suspicions.
You changed your mind? Does this one work any better?
It’s great to see that you don’t let your education get in the way of your ignorance.
It’s impossible to underestimate you.
Congratulations on being the top of the bell curve.
You’re as sharp as a rubber ball.
I was going to give you a nasty look, but I see you already have one.
You’re the reason tubes of toothpaste have instructions on them.
How do you not fall down more?
You’re as deep as a puddle in a parking lot.
I just love that you don’t care what people think.
You remind me of a slightly tilted picture frame.
Stupidity is not a crime. You’re free to go.
You really should come with a warning label.
I would describe your personality as a vibrant shade of beige.
You’re such a conversation starter. It gets underway as soon as you leave, that is.
You don’t need to fear success. You have nothing to worry about.
This is why the gene pool needs a lifeguard.
You have the charisma of a wet sock.
You seem to have bad luck when it comes to thinking.
Guess you’re not as dumb as you look. How could you be?!
Your life is more about regret management than goal achievement, isn’t it?
True, sometimes you’re an idiot. But don’t be sorry for who you are!
You continue to meet my expectations.
Where have you been all my life? I don’t know, but I wish you were still there.
I’ll never forget the first time we met. But I’ll keep trying.
If genius skips a generation, your kids will be brilliant.
I admire the way you try so hard.
You’re entitled to your incorrect opinion.
You look easy to draw.
Have you tried doing it the way I told you to the first time?
You have the communication skills of an alarm clock.
Well, at least you’re good-looking.

Why don't you act like a human being or don't you do impersonations?
You're NUMBER ONE in my book.  My book is called \"Creeps I Have Known\".
You're bound to marry well - everyone is above you.
There's nothing I won't do for you - and I'm going to keep on doing it.
You're outstanding in your field, and that's where you should be -- out standing in your field.
When I want your remarks, I'll rattle your cage.
Would you mind reaching into your heart and getting me a piece of ice?
I'm forming an attachment for you - it fits right over your mouth.
Keep talking - you'll think of something to say.
You're just what the doctor ordered - shock treatment.
Why don't you take a powder - preferably arsenic.
You came from nothing, and you brought it with you.
You've given me something to live for - REVENGE.
You're not the person you used to be - and you never were.
You have so much ugly, you could open store.
If there's nothing to say, I'm sure you'll say it.
You're quite a charmer - I'll get you a snake and a flute.
Do I need you?  About as much as the \"Titanic\" needed more water.
You're the kind of person I can't get over, so I'll go around you.
Let me say three little words that will make you dance on air: \"Go hang yourself!\"
Your heart's in the right place - it's your head I'm worried about.
You're making a fool of yourself, and I've never seen better craftmanship.
When people ask me what I see in you, what can I tell them?
I'd love to paint you - do you prefer varnish ot lacquer?
I've heard alot about you - now let's hear your side of the story.
I'd like to help you out - Which way did you come in?
Of course I'll give you a hand - right across the mouth.
You have two parts of brain, 'left' and 'right'. In the left side, there's nothing right. In the right side, there's nothing left.
You're so ugly, when your mom dropped you off at school she got a fine for littering.
I'm jealous of all the people that haven't met you!
If I had a face like yours, I'd sue my parents.
I wasn't born with enough middle fingers to let you know how I feel about you.
Don't you love nature, despite what it did to you?
There's only one problem with your face, I can see it.
Stupidity is not a crime so you are free to go.
You are proof that evolution CAN go in reverse.
If what you don't know can't hurt you, you're invulnerable.
I'm glad to see you're not letting your education get in the way of your ignorance.
I love what you've done with your hair. How do you get it to come out of the nostrils like that?
Brains aren't everything. In your case they're nothing.
If ignorance was music, you'd be an orchestra.
You're the reason the gene pool needs a lifeguard.
As an outsider, what do you think of the human race?
I don't think you are stupid. You just have a bad luck when thinking.
Oh, what? Sorry. I was trying to imagine you with a personality.
You look like a before picture.
Ordinarily people live and learn. You just live.
I had prepared for a battle of wits but I see you came unarmed.
Calling you an idiot would be an insult to all stupid people.
You have the perfect face for radio.
Thank you for making me feel better about my own problems."

function random() {
  if [ $(which shuf 2>/dev/null) ]; then
    random=$(echo "$1" | grep -v '^$' | shuf -n1)
  else
    random=$(echo "$1" | grep -v '^$' | perl -MList::Util=shuffle -e 'print shuffle(<STDIN>);' | head -n1)
  fi
  echo "$random"
}

RAN_AS=$(basename $0)

if   [ $RAN_AS == 'compliment' ] || [ "$1" == "compliment"  ]; then
  random "$compliments"
elif [ $RAN_AS == 'insult' ] || [ "$1" == "insult" ]; then
  random "$insults"
else
  echo 'Usage: compliments-insults [ compliment | insult ]'
  echo 'Alternative Usage: symlink to insults-compliment links named insult and compliment'
  echo '       and run the links instead.'
  echo
  echo '       ln -s compliments-insults compliment'
  echo '       ln -s compliments-insults insult'
  echo '       ./compliment'
  echo '       ./insult'
  echo
fi
